1. Messages
   
Definition:  The prompt or text that the user gives to AI chatbot to generate a response is called Messages.

Example: A user prompt to chatbot “fact about cars” the chatbot responds facts about cars in this “fact about cars” is a Message. 


2. Model
    
Definition: A model is refers to a specific AI model being used to generate responses.

Example: for example OpenAI has different versions of models like gpt-4o and gpt-4.


3. Max Completion Tokens
   
Definition: Maximum numbers of token (words,characters,sentence, that the model generate in one response.

Example: A user ask for a “short essay about honesty” the model will set to 200 tokens maximum, The chatbot will write the essay approximately 200 words long.


4. n

Definition: The number of responses generated by the chatbot for the given input in a single prompt 

Example: A user asks for “three different programing languages” and the model outputs three distinct responses:
Python
Typescript
HTML


5. Stream
   
Definition: In this the chatbot respond us a continuous flow of data that the model process in real time if enabled 

Example: You ask, "What is the capital of France?"
The system starts typing its response in real-time, like this:
"T" ➡️ "Th" ➡️ "The"➡️ "The capital"➡️"The capital of France"➡️ "The capital of France is Paris."


6. Temperature
   
Definition:  It is the level of “creativity” & “randomness” of the AI response 

Example: Low values (e.g., 0.2): Responses will be more focused, predictable, and factual.
High values (e.g., 0.8): Responses will be more diverse, creative, or even quirky.


7. Top_p
   
Definition: This is another way to control randomness. Top_p controls how many word choices the AI would consider when generating a response.

Example: Top_p = 0.1: The AI will only consider the top 10% of the most likely words. This makes the response more predictable and focused.
Top_p = 1.0: The AI will consider all possible words, including less likely ones, making the response more creative


8. Tools
   
Definition: Tools are like extra abilities the AI can use to help you better. Instead of just answering questions with text, the AI can "do things" using these tools.

Example: If enabled It can generate pictures create charts look up things online and many more things
